# Common EDM sounds
So this article about like basses and leads and supersaws and arps and stuff cuz a lot comes back in complextro, dnb, dubstep, bass genres, etc. Like a lot of all these elements and same sound design and stuff like the vocoder supersaw the bendy lead with vibrato and sync. I mean maybe bendy maybe vibrato maybe sync. The basses with the velo trick etc.

But maybe this should go in commonities or somewhere else or like maybe link from commonities to here?

and like the fast filter mod on supersaw for the wah wah and stuff like that

start with the nellie sass tut


having mostly highs is easier to clip as well? or like u dont hear distortion and like kick wont distort also thanks to highs but yeah edm and stuff and like hard hitting shit often has
the up going curve so real bright


but u then gotta make sure no ear piercing in highs like that super highs arent too high and shit t ear pears


like have plenty of highs but simply nto ear piercing u know so a bit compressed and stuff and not too n eachother and not too long


another article tips for tonal balance and then give a few guidelines for genres and such like EDM usually the bass and lomids is like under the highs and very highs
and span meter goes really like upwards motion


so reverb over delay i think right?

also there is no right way to mix and master like the way u mix and master also effect like ur style do u want ur mix to be brighter or more dark it all depends

he has mid bass in the in-between sections for carrying i think, its too much probs in drop

and some ott for some fatness?

ofc for a certain sound or a certain ull want to reference mixes and so in that way 'there is a way' but yeah that doesn't mean that another mix is bad and stuff like yeah

and then the super highs goes a bit dsown again to not be ear piercing

another edm commonity is to layer a melodic thingy with a more plucky like short tomm whatever things, again in the tutorial

like common to layer more melodic sustain sounds with sommy and stuff


check chord voicings

hard hitting bass and kick

find out if ur music theory guy or sound design guy, where do i like write this or already like have it somewhere?

During work hours, especially at the office you can't really make music so use that time to hone other skills like analysis where you don't have to necessarily need
any programs for. Or like musescore to an extend

wirte ideas out in basic synth or piano?????? like where to put this? in producitvity or general tips?


solo the supresaw at 8=59 in the video like and check in spectrum analyzer


so not really preset but just some basic pwm with sync and vibrato automation

sync + vibrato macro longer sustain notes or on shorter notes


check presets

check reverb settings

check mixer, check if volume isnt st in channel racks or something check loudest elements check if compressor

reusing elements, again not that much different patches u know

12:20 there is the mixer rack


so even tho playing in low-mids very noticeable in highs and isee like a lead like such really pushes it up

how the chords follow the lead

the layers

Maybe have a commmon cool basses article as basses are often like for lots of genres and how to achieve them and links to videos and stuff and timestamp and tricks

same perhaps with leads and same perhaps with supersaws (like common automation and stuff, and fx like vocoder and such)


just put ur stuff out there like even tho if u hear like

esp in terms ofg producing like musically is not that hard cuz u can learn without knowing eq or fatness or stereo



Have a bit of history of myself how i started making stuff in like PSP beat maker games, little big planet PS vita and music maker for school (???) and eventually
moved on to an actual DAW: Anvil Studio which i thought at the time was the shit and the pinaacle of music making (its worse than musescore). It took me till 2017 to realize i could make shit in FL studio as well and it took me till late 2019 to realize that i could do more than using the regular presets

like when feel bad cuz u song bad after listen other song, feel good to liosten or ur prev songs or first song and feel progress actual meaasure




clean up presets

I agree with you man. People often like to parry to just do you and use your ears but a beginner is really helped with some numbers
 stereo check on stereo meter???

so checkout the tutorial with nellie and then his other remix song and analyze both

again take also all these little solo bits in the tutorial and check them out in a spectrum analyzer
also common for lead to not be a preset actually but usually some kinda pwm with sync + vibrato in a macro (or both individual for total control). What does sync do?

