Noticeable usually means significant amount of high frequencies (and transients). 


Now, the opposite is also true. Sometimes you DO want elements to be noticeable. A kick, in many genres and songs, is a prime example for this. Now, again, to make your kick more noticeable you could turn up the volume and it may be solved. Or maybe instruments (also) need to be EQ'ed out in the lows more too or some need to be turned down. Again it depends.

*Intermezzo: Noticeable usually means having more highs (and transients) as highs are more noticed than lows by the ear (especially the highest).*

However, a lot of times, you'll find that your kick is already at a decent volume, yet doesn't cut through at all. This is then because your kick has a decent amount of lows which is good but not enough highs. So what you'll then notice is that turning up will make the kick overpower the low-end whilst still not cutting through (only if you turn it up real loud in which case the mix balance is completely off). Here it thus is a matter of increasing the high frequencies rather than all frequencies (i.e. volume balancing). You can do this in two ways (and both aren't mutually exclusive). Either you boost a bit of the highs and see if that solves the problem. Or, you layer a transient-heavy kick with it (of course mixing it well with the other kick). In this way the volume will still increase of your total kick but not this much and also this time it's caused byadditional high frequencies. In other words, we can now turn down the total kick in volume to the original volume (or one that feels good) and notice it cutting through.

This technique is also applicable to leads or chords. A lead you usually want to be noticed (especially in chorus and/or buys mix) so if you find that you need to turn up your lead too much in volume to be noticed it may just be an issue that the highs aren't prevalent enough (assuming your other parts are decently balanced and eq'ed). In that case EQ boosting a nice high frequency range may help.

Now, note that of course high frequencies need to exist too so this is where stuff like OTT, saturation, transient processors can help since boosting only a few highs will not help (or make those few frequencies too much). Layering also will help of course to add the highs it needs (like an octave layer or whatever).



and noticeably cut through the mix You may want your bass to not cut through too much but still provide low-end, however, in many genres you do want your kick to cut through.

Lastly, as with everything it's a spectrum. You don't have to make your bass a full sub bass so it doesn't interfere with the highs at all, in your genre or song you may want to push the limit of having your bass noticed (and a bit fat/thick) whilst still having it out of the way of the music. Or maybe you just want a tad of harmonics just to not make the bass super sterile and thin.


Volume balance is and should be the first step in mixing instruments. However, often you'll find yourself that something isn't cutting through the mix even though it is already at a decent volume. A great example of this is with a kick (or snare). On its own it may be fine but played with other sounds it may get drowned in the mix. Now of course this could just mean that you need to EQ and balance your other sounds and/or EQ and volume balance your kick to solve it but often you might find yourself in a situation where the volume of the kick is quite loud already so turnining it up doesn't make sense. In this case it's often because the kick has a loud bottom end (which is good) so turning it up would just get overpowering in the bottom-end whilst still not cutting through (it may only cut through if you heavily increase the loudness of the kick in which case it just overpowers the whole mix and sounds quite bad). You can hear this especially on laptop speakers which inherently have less low-end.

Same for chord stacks if you find yourself having to turn up too much to be noticed you may just need to boost freqs and/or add a (bright) layer. Like if u add a dull layer again there is no point.
