# Key to a professional sounding mix
Initially I used to think


First of all, to debunk the "huge" bottom end. Huge as in what? Loudness? No that will overpower the mix. Denseness? Well, also no because there are very little frequencies in the lows. That's the thing, there is no such thing as a "huge" bottom end. There are very few frequencies to work with. Therefore, there is really not much stuff you can fit in there to make your bottom-end much fatter than other's bottom end. In fact, all bottom ends are very similar sounding (just low-pass any song at 150-200Hz and it's mostly subby energy from the instruments you'll hear) as there are so little frequencies. Of course you can compress down there to have the bottom end for longer present (like sustain, a more boomy kick and/or snare and/orbass), you can saturate so that the first (few) harmonic(s) are a bit more prominent but again, it's usually mostly the kick and bass down there anyway so there is not much extra hugeness to be had other than the aformentioned mixing techniques on those little handful of instruments.

Then I thought it was about mastering. Again, sure, mastering will make stuff even more in your face sounding and probably brighter and louder but it seriously doesn't do that much to the sound and hugeness of a track. All that is coming from the mix and a master is just there to enhance it. In fact, a good mix doesn't require fancy master stuff (though usually it's nice and easy to do some processing on the master so you don't have to try and fix individual elements).

Thirdly, about "filling up the spectrum". Again, you can fill up a spectrum with white noise. Does that sound huge and full to you? I don't think so. Like, you can saturate the shit out of everything and compress and have a super dense mix of random sounds and you fill the spectrum but it will sound bad. Desperately trying to fill up the spectrum is seriously not the way.

In the end, there really isn't a sort of denseness or low-end hugeness that makes a mix sound fat and huge and loud and stuff. 

So what is the key then to a professional song? 

It's (mostly) a combination of sound design, composition and mixing techniques. Mixing techniques play a huge role. Making a song sound huge is about making the song like it's multidimensional. For example, an important aspect is to create width and panning in a mix. Take any of your reference tracks and/or tracks you think sound huge, put a Voxengo MSED on it and mute the sides. Notice immediately how narrow and "unprofessional" the song sounds and then, while playing, unmute it and immediately hear the immense space the song is in again. Now, I talk about this more in other articles but due to the floaty nature of 100% stereo you do want of course some elements to be more centered than others. For example, a bass may be in mono but to give your low-end some width you can add a same (or similar) stereo layer and then mix it in a little bit with your mono bass and you get wider bottom-end but still kind of centered. Same with panning. Pan drums, pan other elements, automate panning. Seriously create a space. And lastly, reverb and delay. Ping pong delay also gives the sense of stereo and reverb with it's washy nature also makes a sound appear more stereo.

But either way, with the track 100% in mono it still sound pretty good right? Well, that's because of the other mixing techniques, sounds chosen and the composition itself. Like, probably stuff like reverb is used to really put elements in a space and really add in that top-end shimmer that makes a mix full and non-dry sounding. On top of that, you got the mix where (low-)mids are cut away for space and stuff made bright, just generally good mixing. Then you have the sounds itself used that are a super big factor. The sounds are nice sounding sounds and they all compliment eachother. And then the composition. Like the way stuff is arranged and composed, melody, harmony and timbre all that stuff together makes the song sound good. Like these things are less for "hugeness" but they really do 100% contribute to a professional sounding song rather than trying to fill the frequencies.

On top of that, if you follow good compositional practices and tropes you'll easily "fill out the spectrum" where needed. Like the drum kick + snare + open hi-hat with cymbals is seriously already low and highs filled quite good and just need some music in the middle. Interesting layers for extra dimension and interest, sound candy and fills and stuff to make your song come alive.

So, seriously, I cannot stress this enough. Composition, good mixing techniques and chosen sounds are what makes a mix sound good. Seriously, don't worry about trying to fill up a mix's spectrum or whatever. Simply worry about making music. Reference music to what compositional elements they have, reference them for how bright and/or reverby elements in their mix are, how wide they are, if there is panning, how bright they are and stuff like that.

Like, without the good mixing techniques, the song will sound pretty unhuge and dry as frick. Without the good composition, the song will not sound full (though mixing also helps with that, as with reverb and delay and layering) and musical. Without the good sounds, the song will also sound pretty bad.

Like, common things are supersaws. They are very rich in harmonics, therefore, a chord stack fills the frequencies up. However, it's so unmusical to have them play super loud and super dry. It's simply harsh. Pushing them back in the mix in volume, evening out the brightness with OTT and adding some reverb (low cut 300Hz) to put them in space as well as perhaps some unison to give way for the more important elements, it is already way better mixed in and the same composition of the chord stack will sound so much better already now.

Another one is a snare. In EDM stuff, a snare is usually loud and important so making it interesting and cutting through is important. So in that regard usually we'll do things. Like adding interesting timbres, we want low-mid punch, we may want transient for extra cut, but also we want reverb on the total to have that nice dimension. And there we go, a nice sounding snare that also is powerful (meaning it hits low-mid and also has strong transients) and cuts through mix. Again, depends, as sometimes in 4/4, you may only have claps to layer with the 2/4 and 4/4 kick to not interfere. But again, interesting claps, some reverb for dimension and width, all that good stuff. It's not necessarily to fill the spectrum it's to know what makes a snare sound powerful and what we want the snare to be (like if the snare is not important we don't need to take as much care you know to make it beatufiul and powerful).
